Rules of Engagement (RoE) are a legally binding outline of the client objectives and scope with further details of engagement expectations between both parties. This is the first "official" document in the engagement planning process and requires proper authorization between the client and the red team. This document often acts as the general contract between the two parties; an external contract or other NDAs (Non-Disclosure Agreement) can also be used.

The format and wording of the RoE are critical since it is a legally binding contract and sets clear expectations.


Each RoE structure will be determined by the client and red team and can vary in content length and overall sections. Below is a brief table of standard sections you may see contained in the RoE.

Section Name	Section Details
Executive Summary	Overarching summary of all contents and authorization within RoE document
Purpose	Defines why the RoE document is used
References	Any references used throughout the RoE document (HIPAA, ISO, etc.)
Scope	Statement of the agreement to restrictions and guidelines
Definitions	Definitions of technical terms used throughout the RoE document
Rules of Engagement and Support Agreement	Defines obligations of both parties and general technical expectations of engagement conduct
Provisions	Define exceptions and additional information from the Rules of Engagement
Requirements, Restrictions, and Authority 	Define specific expectations of the red team cell
Ground Rules	Define limitations of the red team cell's interactions
Resolution of Issues/Points of Contact	Contains all essential personnel involved in an engagement
Authorization	Statement of authorization for the engagement
Approval 	Signatures from both parties approving all subsections of the preceding document
Appendix	Any further information from preceding subsections
When analyzing the document, it is important to remember that it is only a summary, and its purpose is to be a legal document. Future and more in-depth planning are required to expand upon the RoE and client objectives.

For this task we will use a shortened document adapted from redteam.guide

Engagement documentation is an extension of campaign planning where ideas and thoughts of campaign planning are officially documented. In this context, the term "document" can be deceiving as some plans do not require proper documentation and can be as simple as an email; this will be covered later in this task.

In this task, we will cover a technical overview of the contents of each campaign plan prior to looking at the plans and documents themselves in upcoming tasks.

Engagement Plan:

Component	Purpose
CONOPS (Concept of Operations)
Non-technically written overview of how the red team meets client objectives and target the client.
Resource plan
Includes timelines and information required for the red team to be successful—any resource requirements: personnel, hardware, cloud requirements.
Operations Plan:

Component	Purpose
Personnel 
Information on employee requirements.
Stopping conditions
How and why should the red team stop during the engagement.
RoE (optional)
-
Technical requirements
What knowledge will the red team need to be successful.
Mission Plan:

Component	Purpose
Command playbooks (optional)
Exact commands and tools to run, including when, why, and how. Commonly seen in larger teams with many operators at varying skill levels.
Execution times
Times to begin stages of engagement. Can optionally include exact times to execute tools and commands.
Responsibilities/roles
Who does what, when.
Remediation Plan (optional):

Component	Purpose
Report
Summary of engagement details and report of findings.
Remediation/consultation 
How will the client remediate findings? It can be included in the report or discussed in a meeting between the client and the red team.
